# serc_deadwood
If a tree rots in the forest: Linking deadwood decay to greenhouse gas emissions
SERC deadwood study, spring-summer 2021

STUDY: Decay classes are traditionally used in temperate deciduous forests as a rapid snapshot of DW decay. Decay classes use wood structure, hardness, intactness, and appearance to rate deadwood on a 1 (little decomposition) to 5 (almost complete decomposition) scale. However, a forest inventory snapshot with decay class does not capture important temporal changes of DW such as rates of decay and C release. To create a more robust characterization of DW decay, I look to identify relationships between rates of change in decay class and gas release (i.e., CO2 and CH4) as well as changes in microbial communities (which are driving the aforementioned C flux) across different forest floor environments (i.e., aerobic and anaerobic conditions). 

GOALS: In this study I will provide a mechanistic understanding of DW decay to investigate if DW inundation changes the rates and forms of C release, microbial community composition and decay class transition relative to unindundated conditions. Results can be extrapolated to other temperate forests and incorporated into earth system models, providing a clearer lens on the role of terrestrial systems in C storage and release. 

FIELD SITE: This study will capitalize on a previous DW survey conducted at a long-term Smithsonian Institution ForestGEO plot at the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center (SERC). As a temperate coastal forest in the mid-Atlantic, the field site also offers a unique opportunity to study C fluxes in a dynamic forest landscape, another missing piece of forest representation in earth system models. Additionally, the ForestGEO plot at SERC is part of a global network of forest sites which range across latitude and forest type, and these sites hold a wealth of historical deadwood data that are key to studying DW decay through time. 
